Add ReFi intro page (#8439)
ethereum/ethereum-org-website: src/content/refi/index.md

Reviewer: So our [updated style guide](https://github.com/ethereum/ethereum-org-website/blob/cdfaf66b919d163b4fdc2b880b04e2b304e56eff/src/content/contributing/style-guide/index.md) isn't live yet, but @konopkja has recommended we try to limit the number of links on any given page, as user feedback has suggested people are getting overwhelmed with links that pull them away from the content.

The new guide suggests about 5 links per 1000 words, and trying to limit pages to no longer than 1500 words or so. Seeing ~1750 words, and 27 links (not including the "further reading")... I would strongly suggest we try and trim down the number of links that are used throughout this article.

Would suggest the most important links stay inline within the copy, remove the least valuable links, and everything else pull down to the "further reading", being careful to not make that list too overwhelming.

summaryPoint2: A tool to bring unprecedented transparency and drastically scale up current environmental asset markets like the voluntary carbon market.
summaryPoint3: Attempts to mitigate and/or reduce the impact of global and regional crises.
---

## The Roots of ReFi: Regenerative Capitalism and the Cypherpunks {#roots-of-refi}

In his [2015 paper](https://capitalinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-Regenerative-Capitalism-4-20-15-final.pdf) Regenerative Capitalism: How Universal Principles and Patterns Will Shape Our New Economy, John Fullerton of the Capital Institute set out an evolved version of capitalism intended to account for and address negative externalities such as climate change and entrenched inequality.

Reflecting on the financial crisis of 2008, Fullerton joined many in questioning the long-term viability of early 21st century capitalism and sought to imagine “a self-organizing, naturally self-maintaining, highly adaptive Regenerative form of capitalism that produces lasting social and economic vitality for global civilization as a whole”.

> Drawing on the theory of [biomimicry](https://biomimicry.org/what-is-biomimicry/) and applying systems thinking to economics, Fullerton identified eight interconnected principles that would underlie systemic health:

Reviewer 2: This section kind of leads me to expect a list of the eight interconnected principles. Suggest either removing the colon and turning the words "eight interconnected principles" into a link to an external resource that lists the principles, or listing them as bullets after the colon.

Author: We added a missing image - it's got KlimaDAO branding, if that's an issue maybe an in-house designer could adapt it?

Reviewer: Also worth noting that any English text in images will not be translated. Given we have the image below but only in English, it could be helpful to still type these eight principles out, so when viewed in other languages that text will be properly translated.

> In parallel to Fullerton’s reforming vision of traditional economics, the Cypherpunk movement, which began in the 1970s, evolved to encompass cryptocurrencies such as Bitcoin and the early smart contracts of [Nick Szabo](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nick_Szabo). By the late 2010s and early 2020s, Ethereum and other blockchains that facilitate strong cryptography and privacy-enhancing technologies had become a reality, offering the possibility of globally coordinated social and political change across the borders of nation states.

Reviewer 2: I'm not sure Ethereum really delivers on "privacy enhancing technologies" yet - TC is sanctioned and we don't have privacy built in at the protocol level. The USP of Ethereum right now, as I see it, is the coordination made possible by permissionless global access to a computer with a universally shared state.

With the blossoming of DeFi on Ethereum, smart contracts have been developed that can be made fundamentally regenerative in nature, providing the foundations of a new, planet-positive financial system.

## What is ReFi? {#what-is-refi}

> Regenerative Finance is a set of tools and ideas facilitated by Ethereum that create economies which are regenerative in nature and not exploitive or extractive. ReFi operates on the assumption that the creation of monetary value must not be intrinsically tied to the not-infinitely sustainable extraction of resources from our planet and/or communities, as has previously been the case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Regenerative Finance is a set of tools and ideas facilitated by Ethereum that create economies which are regenerative in nature and not exploitive or extractive. ReFi operates on the assumption that the creation of monetary value must not be intrinsically tied to the unsustainable extraction of resources from our planet and/or communities, as has previously been the case.

```

## Carbon credits and carbon markets {#carbon-credits}

[Carbon credits](https://www.klimadao.finance/de/blog/the-role-of-carbon-mitigation-and-removal-credits) and their associated markets, specifically the voluntary carbon market (VCM), are currently the [most well-known use case of ReFi](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-a-catalyst-for-innovation-within-the-voluntary-carbon-market). They address both of the issues mentioned above.

> - Carbon credits facilitate an economic choice that, before they existed, was not possible. Landowners, for example, may use a forest’s resources to create a monetary return by selling or using the wood it supplies. As an alternative, carbon credits offer the chance to leave the forest unharmed while the landowner is paid to leave it alone. The carbon credits generated by this forestry project are in high demand by companies who wish to offset their carbon footprints. The landowner gets paid for his or her work, the company keeps producing its products and services, and the forestry project sequesters the carbon emitted by the company’s operations. This regenerative flow, which sits in contrast to extractive, exploitive finance, is the core of ReFi.

Reviewer 2: Fair enough. Out of scope for this page but I'm interested in your take on the criticism that ReFi doesn't do anything to solve fundamental problems with C credit systems - e.g. replacing C in rocks with C in wood is not a like-for-like trade. It takes "cold storage" C and replaces it with fast "hot wallet" C.

Author: Would be happy to discuss this in more depth, maybe on a call

I think your specific question is about nature-based carbon removal such as afforestation/reforestation (a.k.a. "planting trees"?) where carbon dioxide that was released from burning fossil fuels is sequestered in trees which only live for at best a few centuries.

Afforestation/reforestation is just one of many methodologies for carbon removal, and there are also many methodologies for _avoided_ emissions which incentivize adoption of renewable energy and protection of existing forests from deforestation, which is arguably more effective per $ spent than removing emissions after-the-fact.

In my opinion we need a wide array of methodologies, some of which have greater permanence like geological storage or avoiding emissions in the first place by switching to renewables, and others which have greater cobenefits (like restoring natural ecosystems or improving water quality). See this article on permanence for more details: https://www.offsetguide.org/high-quality-offsets/permanence/

The carbon markets are a complex space, and there's a lot of nuance and shades of gray. No methodology is perfect, they all make assumptions and it's up to scientific experts to evaluate each proposed methodology before they are accepted into a standard like Verra or Gold Standard, or a web3-native registry system like Regen Network is building.

---
title: Regenerative Finance (ReFi)
description: An overview of ReFi and current use cases.
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":recycle:"
sidebarDepth: 2
image: ../../assets/future_transparent.png
alt: ""
summaryPoint1: An alternative economic and funding system focused on sustainability.
summaryPoint2: A tool used to drastically scale up current, slow voluntary carbon markets.
summaryPoint3: Attempts to mitigate and/or reduce the impact of global and regional crises.
---

> ## The Roots of ReFi: Regenerative Capitalism and the Cypherpunks {#roots-of-refi}

Reviewer: Just noting, we typically use sentence casing throughout the site for headers (capitalizing only first word and proper nouns)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The roots of ReFi: regenerative capitalism and the cypherpunks {#roots-of-refi}
```

In his [2015 paper](https://capitalinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2015/04/2015-Regenerative-Capitalism-4-20-15-final.pdf) Regenerative Capitalism: How Universal Principles and Patterns Will Shape Our New Economy, John Fullerton of the Capital Institute set out an evolved version of capitalism intended to account for and address negative externalities such as climate change and entrenched inequality. 

Reflecting on the financial crisis of 2008, Fullerton joined many in questioning the long-term viability of early 21st century capitalism and sought to imagine “a self-organizing, naturally self-maintaining, highly adaptive Regenerative form of capitalism that produces lasting social and economic vitality for global civilization as a whole”. 

Drawing on the theory of [biomimicry](https://biomimicry.org/what-is-biomimicry/) and applying systems thinking to economics, Fullerton identified eight interconnected principles that would underlie systemic health:

> ![Eight interconnected principles](https://www.klimadao.finance/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.sanity.io%2Fimages%2Fdk34t4vc%2Fproduction%2F87d1b87811fdcbac191eac96f12132408f62324c-4096x3072.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

Reviewer: Also, I think we could clean that image up pretty easily to make it more responsive.
- Would suggest removing the "source" from being in the image, and just place it as text beneath the image (also provides the link https://capitalinstitute.org/8-principles-regenerative-economy)
- Make white space surrounding the circle transparent
- Add a white background only for KlimaDAO logo (just so the black shows on dark mode)
- Scale this logo down and move it closer, then crop out dead space

![regen-8-principles](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/54227730/213260176-ae2e19c6-65a3-4ecf-8aad-1d221713d9b9.png)

Something like this maybe?

> ![Eight interconnected principles](https://www.klimadao.finance/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.sanity.io%2Fimages%2Fdk34t4vc%2Fproduction%2F87d1b87811fdcbac191eac96f12132408f62324c-4096x3072.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

Author: Sure! I've circled back with the creatives who made this to see if we can get a proper transparent version from the original artifacts

> ![Eight interconnected principles](https://www.klimadao.finance/_next/image?url=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.sanity.io%2Fimages%2Fdk34t4vc%2Fproduction%2F87d1b87811fdcbac191eac96f12132408f62324c-4096x3072.jpg&w=3840&q=75)

Author: Went with a centered logo, added the image into the repo

LMK if you'd prefer a rightside corner logo placement - we have a version like that, just threw off the symmetry I thought

Regenerative Finance is a set of tools and ideas facilitated by Ethereum that create economies which are regenerative in nature and not exploitive or extractive. ReFi operates on the assumption that the creation of monetary value must not be intrinsically tied to the extraction of limited resources from our planet and/or communities, as has previously been the case.

Instead, ReFi aims to solve large-scale issues like [climate change](https://www.un.org/en/climatechange/what-is-climate-change) as well as more regionally concentrated crises—environmental, communal, or social—by creating regenerative cycles. These create value for participants while simultaneously offering a benefit for our ecosystem and/or communities. 

ReFi is an attempt to use one of capitalism’s strong suits—i.e. the ability to act and progress quickly and fund activities that offer a return to stakeholders—in the best interests of said stakeholders, our planet, and future generations. There are some overlaps with the [Decentralized Science (DeSci)](https://ethereum.org/en/desci/) movement, which uses Ethereum as a platform to finance, create, review, credit, store, and disseminate scientific knowledge.

> ### The Purpose of ReFi: Solving the Prisoner’s Dilemma and Funding the Commons {#refi-purpose}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### The purpose of ReFi: solving the Prisoner’s Dilemma and funding the commons {#refi-purpose}
```

A related problem is the so-called [Tragedy of the Commons](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tragedy_of_the_commons). Creating value often consists of extracting resources from the planet and/or communities and selling the product or service these resources create. This ranges from using wood to create furniture, to industrial agriculture, to coal-fueled electricity generation in order to power the services provided by a company. Two major problems arise as a result of these extractive practices:

1. These extractive methods are usually not sustainable, as resources on Earth are not endless and many of these practices deplete natural resources and/or create greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming, eventually undermining the habitability of the planet.

2. Incentives are misaligned, as the desire to accumulate more wealth and the actions following this desire, which is a strong driver in capitalistic systems, often negatively impact our environment.

> These factors typically lead to all available resources being consumed, with no regard for negative impacts on the environment or society at large, resulting in tragedies like polluted air and water, deforestation, or exhaustion of soils and fisheries - but such situations are not intractable. Traditional solutions to public goods problems like the Tragedy of the Commons typically involve top-down solutions enforced by a government or other institution with enforcement power to prevent excessive extraction from such Common Pool Resources (CPRs) as fisheries, watersheds, and the atmosphere we all breathe.

Reviewer: (small punctuation patch)
```suggestion
These factors typically lead to all available resources being consumed, with no regard for negative impacts on the environment or society at large, resulting in tragedies like polluted air and water, deforestation, or exhaustion of soils and fisheries—but such situations are not intractable. Traditional solutions to public goods problems like the Tragedy of the Commons typically involve top-down solutions enforced by a government or other institution with enforcement power to prevent excessive extraction from such Common Pool Resources (CPRs) as fisheries, watersheds, and the atmosphere we all breathe.
```

ReFi projects aim to use blockchain technology to alleviate many of these problems:

- Liquidity is concentrated in a small number of [liquidity pools](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/what-is-a-liquidity-pool-crypto-market-liquidity). These are open for trade for everyone. Large organizations as well as individual users can use these pools without manual searches for sellers/buyers, participation fees, or prior registration. 

- All transactions are recorded on public blockchains such as Polygon, a scaling solution for Ethereum. The path each carbon credit takes due to trading activity is traceable forever as soon as it is made available in the DCM.

- Transaction speed is nearly instant. Securing large amounts of carbon credits via the legacy markets can take days or weeks, but this can be achieved in a few seconds in the DCM.

- Trading activity occurs without intermediaries, which charge high fees. Data analytics firm AlliedOffsets found that digital carbon offset assets represent a [62% cost improvement compared to equivalent traditional credits](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-analysis-of-the-base-carbon-tonne).

> - The DCM is infinitely scalable and can meet the demands of individuals and multinational corporations alike.

Reviewer: "infinitely scalable"?

Reviewer: Would suggest removing "infinitely" to avoid hyperbole

```suggestion
- The DCM is scalable and can meet the demands of individuals and multinational corporations alike.
```

![Eight interconnected principles](../../assets/use-cases/refi-regenerative-economy-diagram.png)

ReFi projects realize these principles using [smart contracts](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/) and [decentralized finance (DeFi)](/defi/) applications to incentivize regenerative behaviors and facilitate large-scale collaboration.

ReFi also overlaps with the [decentralized science (DeSci)](/desci/) movement, which uses Ethereum as a platform to finance, create, review, credit, store, and disseminate scientific knowledge. DeSci tools could become useful for developing verifiable standards and practices for implementing and monitoring regenerative activities like planting trees, removing plastic from the ocean, or restoring a degraded ecosystem.

## The current state of ReFi {#refi-current-state}

ReFi is still very young, and so far it has found its best fit in projects related to carbon markets. Tokenization of carbon credits from the **[voluntary carbon market (VCM)](https://climatefocus.com/so-what-voluntary-carbon-market-exactly/)** is currently the most prominent use case.

> Carbon credits and carbon markets existed long before the term ReFi was coined. The seeds were planted at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, when 160 countries agreed to the [UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)](https://unfccc.int/). There are now several government-mandated carbon markets (‘compliance markets’) that aim to establish a carbon price via laws or regulations controlling the supply of permits to be distributed by national, regional, and global regimes. The VCM is an entirely separate market in which private actors voluntarily buy and sell carbon credits that represent certified removals or reductions of greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere. However, despite its development over recent decades, the VCM continues to suffer from a variety of issues, such as highly fragmented liquidity, opaque transaction mechanisms, high fees, very slow trading speed, and lack of scalability to meet the necessary 10–20x growth that the [Taskforce on Scaling the Voluntary Carbon Markets](https://www.iif.com/tsvcm) predicts is needed in the coming decade for the VCM to deliver on its potential to mitigate the climate crisis.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There are now several government-mandated carbon markets (‘compliance markets’) that aim to establish a carbon price via laws or regulations controlling the supply of permits to be distributed by national, regional, and global regimes.

Private actors voluntarily buy and sell carbon credits that represent certified removals or reductions of greenhouse gasses. Despite its development over recent decades, th**e current VCM continues to suffer from a variety of issues**: 

1. Highly fragmented liquidity
2. Opaque transaction mechanisms
3. High fees
4. Very slow trading speed
5. Lack of scalability to meet the necessary 10–20x growth to mitigate the climate crisis

```

Reviewer 3: removed some unnecessary background information, added list of problems to establish clarity why refi makes sense

Transitioning the VCM to the new blockchain-based **digital carbon market (DCM)** might be an opportunity to upgrade the existing technology for validating, transacting and consuming carbon credits. Blockchains allow for publicly verifiable data, access for a broad range of users and more liquidity.

ReFi projects employ blockchain technology to alleviate many of the problems of the traditional market:

> - In the DCM, liquidity is concentrated in a small number of [liquidity pools](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/what-is-a-liquidity-pool-crypto-market-liquidity) that can be freely traded by anyone. Large organizations as well as individual users can use these pools without manual searches for sellers/buyers, participation fees, or prior registration.
> - All transactions are recorded on public blockchains. The path each carbon credit takes due to trading activity is traceable forever as soon as it is made available in the DCM.
> - Transaction speed is nearly instant. Securing large amounts of carbon credits via the legacy markets can take days or weeks, but this can be achieved in a few seconds in the DCM.
> - Trading activity occurs without intermediaries, which charge high fees. Digital carbon credits represent a [62% cost improvement compared to equivalent traditional credits](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-analysis-of-the-base-carbon-tonne), according to data from one analytics firm.
> - The DCM is scalable and can meet the demands of individuals and multinational corporations alike.
> 
> Many of the issues responsible for slow growth and impracticality in the VCM, as well as its inability to scale, are either mitigated or solved completely by the transition to a fast, energy-efficient DCM and the applications built on it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
-**Liquidity is concentrated in a small number of liquidity pools** that can be freely traded by anyone. Large organizations as well as individual users can use these pools without manual searches for sellers/buyers, participation fees, or prior registration.
- **All transactions are recorded on public blockchains**. The path each carbon credit takes due to trading activity is traceable forever as soon as it is made available in the DCM.
- **Transaction speed is nearly instant**. Securing large amounts of carbon credits via the legacy markets can take days or weeks, but this can be achieved in a few seconds in the DCM.
- **Trading activity occurs without intermediaries**, which charge high fees. Digital carbon credits represent a [62% cost improvement compared to equivalent traditional credits](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-analysis-of-the-base-carbon-tonne), according to data from one analytics firm.
- **The DCM is scalable** and can meet the demands of individuals and multinational corporations alike.
```

> ### The current building blocks {#current-building}

Reviewer 3: This headline is unclear, ca we make it clearer? what are we trying to say here?

> ### The current building blocks {#current-building}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### The current ReFi projects {#current-refi-projects}

```

Four major components make up the current landscape:

> 1. Registries such as [Verra](https://verra.org/project/vcs-program/registry-system/) and [Gold Standard](https://www.goldstandard.org/) establish standards for the integrity of carbon credit projects. They also operate the databases in which digital carbon credits originate and can be transferred or retired (consumed permanently). A new wave of innovative systems for issuing carbon credits that operate natively on blockchains like Ethereum are also being developed, which may complement or compete with the traditional registries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Registries such as [Verra](https://verra.org/project/vcs-program/registry-system/) and [Gold Standard](https://www.goldstandard.org/) make sure that projects creating carbon credits are reliable. They also operate the databases in which digital carbon credits originate and can be transferred or used up (retired).
```

> 2. Carbon bridges, a.k.a. tokenizers, which provide technology to represent or transfer carbon credits from traditional registries into the DCM. Notable examples include [Toucan Protocol](https://toucan.earth/), [C3](https://c3.app/), and [Moss.Earth](https://moss.earth/).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Carbon bridges, a.k.a. tokenizers provide technology to represent or transfer carbon credits from traditional registries into the DCM. Notable examples include [Toucan Protocol](https://toucan.earth/), [C3](https://c3.app/), and [Moss.Earth](https://moss.earth/).

```

> 3. Integrated services offering carbon avoidance and/or removal credits to end-users so they can claim the environmental benefit of a credit and share their support of climate action with the world. Some such as [Klima Infinity](https://www.klimadao.finance/infinity) and [Senken](https://senken.io/) offer a wide variety of projects developed by third parties and issued under established standards like Verra; others like [Nori](https://nori.com/) only offer specific projects developed under their own carbon credit standard, which they issue and for which they have their own dedicated marketplace.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Integrated services offer carbon avoidance and/or removal credits to end-users so they can claim the environmental benefit of a credit and share their support of climate action with the world. 

Some such as [Klima Infinity](https://www.klimadao.finance/infinity) and [Senken](https://senken.io/) offer a wide variety of projects developed by third parties and issued under established standards like Verra; others like [Nori](https://nori.com/) only offer specific projects developed under their own carbon credit standard, which they issue and for which they have their own dedicated marketplace.

```

---
title: Regenerative Finance (ReFi)
description: An overview of ReFi and its current use cases.
lang: en
template: use-cases
emoji: ":recycle:"
sidebarDepth: 2
image: ../../assets/future_transparent.png
alt: ""
summaryPoint1: An alternative economic system built on regenerative principles
summaryPoint2: An attempt to harness Ethereum to solve global-level coordination crises such as climate change
summaryPoint3: A tool to drastically scale ecological benefit assets like verifed carbon credits
---

## What is ReFi? {#what-is-refi}

> **Regenerative finance (ReFi)** is a set of tools and ideas facilitated by Ethereum that create economies which are regenerative in nature rather than extractive or exploitative. Eventually, extractive systems deplete the resources available and collapse; without regenerative mechanisms, they lack resilience. ReFi operates on the assumption that the creation of monetary value must be decoupled from the unsustainable extraction of resources from our planet and communities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Regenerative finance (ReFi)** is a set of tools and ideas built on top of blockchains that aim to create economies which are regenerative, rather than extractive or exploitative. Eventually, extractive systems deplete the resources available and collapse; without regenerative mechanisms, they lack resilience. ReFi operates on the assumption that the creation of monetary value must be decoupled from the unsustainable extraction of resources from our planet and communities.

```

> Instead, ReFi aims to solve large-scale issues like climate change as well as more regionally concentrated crises—environmental, communal, or social—by creating regenerative cycles. These systems create value for participants while simultaneously benefitting our ecosystem and/or communities. In economic parlance, regenerative financial systems incentivize the production of positive externalities.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Instead, ReFi aims to solve environmental, communal, or social problems by creating regenerative cycles. These systems create value for participants while simultaneously benefiting ecosystems and communities.
```

ReFi leverages one of capitalism’s strong suits—its ability to rapidly deploy capital toward activities that offer a return to stakeholders—in the best interests of said stakeholders, our planet, and future generations. It draws on the theory of regenerative economics pioneered by John Fullerton of the [Capital Institute](https://capitalinstitute.org) to work toward the realization of eight interconnected principles that underlie systemic health:

![Eight interconnected principles](../../assets/use-cases/refi-regenerative-economy-diagram.png)

> To do this, ReFi projects utilize [smart contracts](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/) and tools pioneered in the [decentralized finance (DeFi)](/defi/) space to incentivize regenerative behaviors and facilitate large-scale collaboration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ReFi projects try to realize these principles using [smart contracts](/developers/docs/smart-contracts/) and [decentralized finance (DeFi)](/defi/) applications to incentivize regenerative behaviors and facilitate large-scale collaboration.

```

Reviewer 3: what are regenerative behaviors mentioned in this sentence? its unclear if its the same as the principles mentioned in image or something else, would be good to further clarify

> ReFi also overlaps with the [decentralized science (DeSci)](/desci/) movement, which uses Ethereum as a platform to finance, create, review, credit, store, and disseminate scientific knowledge. Such processes for distributed knowledge generation play a critical role in developing verifiable standards and practices for implementing and monitoring regenerative activities like planting trees, removing plastic from the ocean, or restoring a degraded ecosystem.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ReFi also overlaps with the [decentralized science (DeSci)](/desci/) movement, which uses Ethereum as a platform to finance, create, review, credit, store, and disseminate scientific knowledge. DeSci tools could become useful for developing verifiable standards and practices for implementing and monitoring regenerative activities like planting trees, removing plastic from the ocean, or restoring a degraded ecosystem.
```

> ## The current state of ReFi {#refi-current-state}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Tokenization of carbon credits {#tokenization-of-carbon-credits}

```

Reviewer 3: "The current state of ReFi" is poor headline as it doesnt say anything on its own actually, better to higlight the use case itself

> ReFi is in its early stages, and has so far found its best fit in projects that seek to shape financial incentives toward the meeting of United Nations [Sustainable Development Goal 13 on Climate Change](https://sdgs.un.org/goals/goal13). Tokenization of carbon credits from the **[voluntary carbon market (VCM)](https://climatefocus.com/so-what-voluntary-carbon-market-exactly/)** is currently the most prominent use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
ReFi is still very young, and so far it has found its best fit in projects related to carbon markets. Tokenization of carbon credits from the **[voluntary carbon market (VCM)](https://climatefocus.com/so-what-voluntary-carbon-market-exactly/)** is currently the most prominent use case.

```

Reviewer 3: I like that you have removed one link to make it easier on the reader. I think its still a bit confusing because its very abstract.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**[Voluntary carbon markets (VCM)](https://climatefocus.com/so-what-voluntary-carbon-market-exactly/)** let polluting companies buy credits from projects that reduce or remove greenhouse gases in the atmosphere to balance out their own emissions. This tokenization can be easily tracked, audited and managed on Ethereum.
```

Reviewer 3: i have rewritten this part to focus on explaining the problem - what are carbon markets in the first place, we should not assume the reader knows

Carbon credits and carbon markets existed long before the term ReFi was coined. The seeds were planted at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, when 160 countries agreed to the [UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)](https://unfccc.int/). There are now several government-mandated carbon markets (‘compliance markets’) that aim to establish a carbon price via laws or regulations controlling the supply of permits to be distributed by national, regional, and global regimes. The VCM is an entirely separate market in which private actors voluntarily buy and sell carbon credits that represent certified removals or reductions of greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere. However, despite its development over recent decades, the VCM continues to suffer from a variety of issues, such as highly fragmented liquidity, opaque transaction mechanisms, high fees, very slow trading speed, and lack of scalability to meet the necessary 10–20x growth that the Taskforce on Scaling the Voluntary Carbon Markets predicts is needed in the coming decade for the VCM to deliver on its potential to mitigate the climate crisis.

> Existing technology for validating, transacting and consuming carbon credits can be improved drastically by transitioning the VCM to the new blockchain-based **digital carbon market (DCM)**. This open, transparent ecosystem ensures publicly verifiable data, access for a broad range of users and greater liquidity to scale up the amount of capital deployed to fund climate action.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Transitioning the VCM to the new blockchain-based **digital carbon market (DCM)** might be an opportunity to upgrade the existing technology for validating, transacting and consuming carbon credits. Blockchains allow for publicly verifiable data, access for a broad range of users and more liquidity.

```

ReFi projects employ blockchain technology to alleviate many of the problems of the traditional market:

- In the DCM, liquidity is concentrated in a small number of liquidity pools that can be freely traded by anyone. Large organizations as well as individual users can use these pools without manual searches for sellers/buyers, participation fees, or prior registration.

> - All transactions are recorded on public blockchains such as Polygon, a scaling solution for Ethereum. The path each carbon credit takes due to trading activity is traceable forever as soon as it is made available in the DCM.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- All transactions are recorded on public blockchains. The path each carbon credit takes due to trading activity is traceable forever as soon as it is made available in the DCM.

```

- Transaction speed is nearly instant. Securing large amounts of carbon credits via the legacy markets can take days or weeks, but this can be achieved in a few seconds in the DCM.
- Trading activity occurs without intermediaries, which charge high fees. Data analytics firm AlliedOffsets found that digital carbon offset assets represent a [62% cost improvement compared to equivalent traditional credits](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-analysis-of-the-base-carbon-tonne).
- The DCM is scalable and can meet the demands of individuals and multinational corporations alike.

Many of the issues responsible for slow growth and impracticality in the VCM, as well as its inability to scale, are either mitigated or solved completely by the transition to a fast, energy-efficient DCM and the applications built on it.

> | **Traditional Finance**                                                                                       																				   							 | **Regenerative Finance**                                                                                 																	       							  |

Reviewer 2: in the interests of shortening the page, I suggest removing the table altogether - it's mostly repetition of the bullet points immediately preceding it

Carbon credits and carbon markets existed long before the term ReFi was coined. The seeds were planted at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, when 160 countries agreed to the [UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC)](https://unfccc.int/). There are now several government-mandated carbon markets (‘compliance markets’) that aim to establish a carbon price via laws or regulations controlling the supply of permits to be distributed by national, regional, and global regimes. The VCM is an entirely separate market in which private actors voluntarily buy and sell carbon credits that represent certified removals or reductions of greenhouse gasses in the atmosphere. However, despite its development over recent decades, the VCM continues to suffer from a variety of issues, such as highly fragmented liquidity, opaque transaction mechanisms, high fees, very slow trading speed, and lack of scalability to meet the necessary 10–20x growth that the [Taskforce on Scaling the Voluntary Carbon Markets](https://www.iif.com/tsvcm) predicts is needed in the coming decade for the VCM to deliver on its potential to mitigate the climate crisis.

> Existing technology for gauging the validity and integrity of carbon credits can be improved drastically by transitioning the VCM to the new blockchain-based [Digital Carbon Market (DCM)](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-introduction-to-the-digital-carbon-market), not least as this open and transparent technology restricts the intentional or unintentional obfuscation of data. ReFi projects thus employ blockchain technology to alleviate many of the problems of the traditional market:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Existing technology for gauging the validity and integrity of carbon credits can be improved drastically by transitioning the VCM to the new blockchain-based **[Digital Carbon Market (DCM)](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-introduction-to-the-digital-carbon-market)**, not least as this open and transparent technology restricts the intentional or unintentional obfuscation of data. ReFi projects thus employ blockchain technology to alleviate many of the problems of the traditional market:
```

> , not least as this open and transparent technology restricts the intentional or unintentional obfuscation of data.

Also, not sure I follow this half of the sentence

- In the DCM, liquidity is concentrated in a small number of [liquidity pools](https://www.gemini.com/cryptopedia/what-is-a-liquidity-pool-crypto-market-liquidity) that can be freely traded by anyone. Large organizations as well as individual users can use these pools without manual searches for sellers/buyers, participation fees, or prior registration.

- All transactions are recorded on public blockchains such as Polygon, a scaling solution for Ethereum. The path each carbon credit takes due to trading activity is traceable forever as soon as it is made available in the DCM.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- Transaction speed is nearly instant. Securing large amounts of carbon credits via the legacy markets can take days or weeks, but this can be achieved in a few seconds in the DCM.

- Trading activity occurs without intermediaries, which charge high fees. Data analytics firm AlliedOffsets found that digital carbon offset assets represent a [62% cost improvement compared to equivalent traditional credits](https://www.klimadao.finance/blog/klimadao-analysis-of-the-base-carbon-tonne).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- The DCM is infinitely scalable and can meet the demands of individuals and multinational corporations alike.

Many of the issues responsible for slow growth and impracticality in the VCM, as well as its inability to scale, are either mitigated or solved completely by the transition to a fast, energy-efficient DCM and the applications built on it.

| **Traditional Finance**                                                                                       																				   							 | **Regenerative Finance**                                                                                 																	       							  |
| ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|

> | **Opaque**: Process often handled via RFPs to source carbon based on type, volume, price, etc. Majority of trades take place via over-the-counter (OTC) deals negotiated with little-to-no record afterward. 				   							 | **Transparent**: All products and trades are immutably recorded and accessible to all interested parties in the DCM. Multiple offsetting pool types exist with defined criteria, pricing, and immediate liquidity.							  	  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Opaque**: Process often handled via RFPs to source carbon based on type, volume, price, etc. Majority of trades take place via **over-the-counter (OTC)** deals negotiated with little-to-no record afterward. 				   							 | **Transparent**: All products and trades are immutably recorded and accessible to all interested parties in the DCM. Multiple offsetting pool types exist with defined criteria, pricing, and immediate liquidity.							  	  |
```

> | 		 		  																																		    							 |																																			          						  	  |

Reviewer: Would remove these empty lines to match remainder of site

```suggestion
```

| **High cost**: The process is time-consuming, with high engagement costs. There are numerous decentralized exchanges providing reliable trading outlets 24/7, reducing both time and fee costs. Broker and other fees, including margins, can range between 2.5% and 200%.	 | **Dynamic cost**: Costs are dynamically shown in real time. Fees are in the region of 0.5%.																				  	     						 	  |

> |      																		  																			   							 |																																				   						  	  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| **Not scalable**: Multiple product sources and intermediators make for a highly fragmented space. High friction due to due-diligence complications affecting market participants in one-off deals. High levels of counterparty risk.  							 | **Readily scalable**: Carbon bridging infrastructure leveraging blockchain technology provides immense scaling potential to build digital carbon credit liquidity. New automated infrastructure provides a highly efficient route to the blockchain-enabled DCM. |

> | 							   										  																												 |																																									        	  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| **No yield**: Holders of carbon credits lack additional return opportunity without trading and incurring additional costs.																	  								 | **High yield**: Through digital carbon assets, additional returns are possible by utilizing other DeFi-native applications that integrate carbon as collateral.															    	  |

> | 																																													 |																																										 	  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> | **Slow speed**: Offsets are executed using a compulsory Voluntary Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement (VERPA) and typically take weeks to execute, and even longer if you are buying at scale.			  										 | **High speed**: Purchase any amount of carbon in minutes rather than weeks, at almost any size and with low slippage.																						  	  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| **Slow speed**: Offsets are executed using a compulsory **Voluntary Emission Reduction Purchase Agreement (VERPA)** and typically take weeks to execute, and even longer if you are buying at scale.			  										 | **High speed**: Purchase any amount of carbon in minutes rather than weeks, at almost any size and with low slippage.																						  	  |
```

> |																																													 |																																										  	  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

| **Low liquidity**: Offsets in OTC trades are often broken into pieces as there are not enough offsets in a particular project (or held by a particular broker) to satisfy the trade.															 | **Deep liquidity**: With deep liquidity having already been established on chain, particularly on Polygon, large trades are possible with low slippage and can be executed with speed.												 	  |

### The current building blocks {#current-building}

Four major components make up the current landscape:

> 1. Registries such as [Verra](https://verra.org/project/vcs-program/registry-system/) and [Gold Standard](https://www.goldstandard.org/), which establish standards for the integrity of carbon credit projects and operate the databases in which digital carbon credits originate and can be transferred or retired (consumed permanently). A new wave of innovative systems for issuing carbon credits that operate natively on blockchains like Ethereum are also being developed, which may complement or compete with the traditional registries.

Reviewer: Opens with a bit of a run-on-sentence

```suggestion
1. Registries such as [Verra](https://verra.org/project/vcs-program/registry-system/) and [Gold Standard](https://www.goldstandard.org/) establish standards for the integrity of carbon credit projects. They operate the databases in which digital carbon credits originate and can be transferred or retired (consumed permanently). A new wave of innovative systems for issuing carbon credits that operate natively on blockchains like Ethereum are also being developed, which may complement or compete with the traditional registries.
```

2. Carbon bridges, a.k.a. tokenizers, which provide technology to represent or transfer carbon credits from traditional registries into the DCM. Notable examples include [Toucan Protocol](https://toucan.earth/), [C3](https://c3.app/), and [Moss.Earth](https://moss.earth/).

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

3. Integrated services offering carbon avoidance and/or removal credits to end-users so they can claim the environmental benefit of a credit and share their support of climate action with the world. Some such as [Klima Infinity](https://www.klimadao.finance/infinity) and [Senken](https://senken.io/) offer a wide variety of projects developed by third parties and issued under established standards like Verra; others like [Nori](https://nori.com/) only offer specific projects developed under their own carbon credit standard, which they issue and for which they have their own dedicated marketplace.

> 4. The underlying rails and infrastructure that facilitate the scaling up of the impact and efficiency of the carbon market’s entire supply chain. [KlimaDAO](http://klimadao.finance/) supplies liquidity as a public good (allowing anyone to buy or sell carbon credits at a transparent price), incentivizes increased throughput of carbon markets and retirements with rewards, and provides user-friendly interoperable tooling to access [data](https://carbon.klimadao.finance) about, as well as acquire and [retire](https://app.klimadao.finance/#/offset), a wide variety of tokenized carbon credits.

Reviewer: Would drop the "data" and "retire" links

```suggestion
4. The underlying rails and infrastructure that facilitate the scaling up of the impact and efficiency of the carbon market’s entire supply chain. [KlimaDAO](http://klimadao.finance/) supplies liquidity as a public good (allowing anyone to buy or sell carbon credits at a transparent price), incentivizes increased throughput of carbon markets and retirements with rewards, and provides user-friendly interoperable tooling to access data about, as well as acquire and retire, a wide variety of tokenized carbon credits.
```
